Intrusion Preventions system (IPS) - Ips uses a set of traffic signatures that match and block malicious trafficand attacks .
Virtual Private Networks (VPN) - It let employees use a secure tunnel from their mobile connections and securley connec t back to the organization
What is Firewall ?
In computer networking, a firewall is designed to control or filter which communications are allowed in and which are allowed out of a device or network.
A firewall can be installed on a single computer with the purpose of protecting that one computer (host-based firewall) or
it can be a standalone network device that protects an entire network of computers and all of the host devices on that network
Types  of Firewall are -
i) network layer firewall- This filters communications based on source and destination IP addresses.
ii)transport layer firewall - Filters communications based on source and destination data ports, as well as connection states.
iii)Application layer firewall - Filters communications based on an application, program or service.
iv)Context aware layer firewall - Filters communications based on the user, device, role, application type and threat profile.
v)proxy server - Filters web content requests like URLs, domain names and media types.
vi)reverse proxy server - Placed in front of web servers, reverse proxy servers protect, hide, offload and distribute access to web servers.
vii)Netwrork Address translation firewall - This firewall hides or masquerades the private addresses of network hosts.
viii)Host based firewall - Filters ports and system service calls on a single computer operating system.


An IPS can block or deny traffic based on a positive rule or signature match.
An IDS scans data against a database of rules or attack signatures, looking for malicious traffic.
A DLP system is designed to stop sensitive data from being stolen from or escaping a network. 
A SIEM system collects and analyzes security alerts, logs and other real-time and historical data from security devices on the network.
